# Operating

This document contains requirements and tips for operating the adaptor in a production environment.

# AMQP Message Broker Requirements

* The broker must be configured with a limited number of retries and dead-letter queues
* It is the responsibility of the GP supplier to configure adequate monitoring against the dead-letter queues that allows ALL undeliverable messages to be investigated fully
* The broker must use persistent queues to avoid loss of data
* The GP System must persist the relevant message data before acknowledging the message from the queue to avoid loss of data

**Using AmazonMQ**

* A persistent broker (not in-memory) must be used to avoid data loss
* A configuration profile that includes settings for [retry and dead-lettering](https://activemq.apache.org/message-redelivery-and-dlq-handling.html) must be applied
* AmazonMQ uses the scheme `amqp+ssl://` but this **MUST** be changed to `amqps://` when configuring the adaptor

**Using Azure Service Bus**

* The ASB must use [MaxDeliveryCount and dead-lettering](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/service-bus-messaging/service-bus-dead-letter-queues#exceeding-maxdeliverycount)
* Azure Service Bus may require some parameters as part of the URL configuration. For example: `LAB_RESULTS_AMQP_BROKERS=amqps://<NAME>.servicebus.windows.net/;SharedAccessKeyName=<KEY NAME>;SharedAccessKey=<KEY VALUE>`

# MongoDB Database Requirements

* The Lab Results Adaptor requires a MongoDB-compatible database of at least version 5.0 to manage its internal state.
* The Lab Results Adaptor and Lab Results system communications synchronise through a sequence number mechanism
* The MongoDB database preserves this synchronisation
* Deleting the MongoDB database and/or its collections will break the link with the Lab Results system

**Amazon Document DB Tips**

In the "Connectivity & security" tab of the cluster a URI is provided to "Connect to this cluster with an application".
Replace \<username\>:\<insertYourPasswordHere\> with the actual MongoDB username and password to be used by the application.
The value of `LAB_RESULTS_MONGO_URI` should be set to this value. Since the URI string contains credentials we recommend 
managing the entire value as a secured secret.

The user must have the `readWrite` role or a custom role with specific privileges.

## Database Collections

The default database name is `labresults` but this can be changed through an environment variable. Each deployment of the
adaptor MUST have its own database, but multiple databases could be hosted by a single cluster. The collection names
used by the adaptor cannot be changed.

### Outbound NHSACK Sequence Ids

Tracks the sequence numbers used to produce NHSACK messages. See 
"NHSACK" section below for more information.

Collection Name: `outboundSequenceId`

Properties:

* `_id` the key for the sequence in the format \<type\>-\<sender\>-\<recipient\> where:
  * \<type\> is one of SIS (send interchange sequence), SMS (send message sequence)
  * \<sender\> is the NHS Code of the sender organisation
  * \<recipient\> is the NHS Code of the recipient organisation
* `sequenceNumber` is the most recently generated number for the sequence

Example:

    {
        "_id" : "SIS-000000004400001-000000024600002",
        "sequenceNumber" : 2
    }


### Scheduler Timestamp

A collection used to coordinate running the MESH polling cycle across multiple instances of the adaptor. README 
describes this mechanism in more detail.

Collection Name: `schedulerTimestamp`

Properties:

* `_id`: ObjectId generated by the database system. Not used by the adaptor.
* `schedulerType`: Always "meshTimestamp"
* `updateTimestamp`: The time the MESH polling cycle last ran
* `_class`: Automatically generated by the Spring framework

Example:

    {
        "_id" : ObjectId("5f638befb3bd281ba51000a7"),
        "schedulerType" : "meshTimestamp",
        "updateTimestamp" : ISODate("2020-10-08T11:55:43.520Z"),
        "_class" : "uk.nhs.digital.nhsconnect.lab.results.mesh.scheduler.SchedulerTimestamp"
    }

## AWS DocumentDB TLS configuration

AWS DocumentDB uses a private CA certificate and therefore requires a custom keystore to manage the CA certificates effectively.

To use TLS, it has to be enabled in the DocumentDB instance with the Mongo connection string containing the `tls=true`. 
For more information on TLS configuration in MongoDB see [TLS options for Mongo connection string](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/connection-string/#tls-options).

SSH tunneling might require adding the connection string option: `tlsAllowInvalidHostnames=true` (as CA would try to resolve localhost as hostname).
This option should only be used for local tests as this might create a vulnerability.

Use of DocumentDB TLS requires Java trust store to be provided manually. Instructions on how to create trust store can be found here: 
[Connect to Document DB programmatically](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/documentdb/latest/developerguide/connect_programmatically.html#connect_programmatically-tls_enabled) 

To configure custom trust store with AWS CA certificates set `LAB_RESULTS_SSL_TRUST_STORE_URL` 
with a runtime-accessible S3 URL with the JKS file (Example: s3://my-bucket/my-trust-store.jks). 
The AWS resource running the adaptor must have sufficient permission to read this s3 object.
Additionally, set `LAB_RESULTS_SSL_TRUST_STORE_PASSWORD` to trust store password.

# MESH Requirements

**Note**: The "Development" section of the README refers to a fake-mesh component. fake-mesh is **not** part of the 
adaptor solution and should only be used to assist local development.

NHSD manage access to MESH, allocate mailboxes, and provide connection details / credentials.

# Management Endpoints

[Spring Boot Actuator](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/htmlsingle/#production-ready) provides
three management endpoints:

* /healthcheck
* /metrics
* /info

# Logging and Tracing

The adaptor follows usual conventions for containerised solutions and logs to the console. The chosen container 
orchestration solution must be configured to store and aggregate the adaptor's logs.

## Default log format

Log format is set [here](https://github.com/nhsconnect/integration-adaptor-lab-results/blob/main/src/main/resources/logback.xml#L4) and can be overridden by setting the `LAB_RESULTS_LOGGING_FORMAT` environment variable.

Default log format uses pipe character `|` as field separator:

```
timestamp | log level | thread id | logger name | correlation id | message
```
| field          | description                                       |
|----------------|---------------------------------------------------|
| timestamp      | timestamp of the event                            |
| log level      | one of `DEBUG`, `INFO` (default), `WARN`, `ERROR` |
| thread id      | Java thread identifier                            |
| logger name    | name of the logger that created log entry         |
| correlation id | (described below)                                 |
| message        | message of the log entry                          |

`DEBUG` level must be used with caution as it may result in medical data leak

## Correlation Id

The adaptor uses a correlation id to make it easier to trace the processing of individual messages. It generates a random correlation id for every message (interchange) downloaded from MESH. 
An interchange may contain multiple messages, and the adaptor uses the same correlation id for all messages 
within an interchange.

Some log lines are uncorrelated to a specific message. These logs have an empty `<Correlation Id>` value.

Messages published to the adaptor's three AMQP message queues include a CorrelationId header.

# NHSACK

**GENERATING AND SENDING NHSACK IS CURRENTLY DISABLED**

When new Interchanges are received from MESH, they already contain Interchange Sequence Numbers (EDIFACT Interchange Header) and Message Sequence Numbers (EDIFACT Message Header) that were generated by the sender.
The Lab Results Adaptor has neither responsibility nor control over those numbers.

However, the Adaptor has the ability to produce NHSACK messages that act as summaries of the Interchange processing status when the Interchange Header requests one.
In such cases an NHSACK message will be created and sent back to the sender of the initial Interchange.
Those NHSACK messages are EDIFACT messages and producing them requires sequence numbers to be generated for both the whole NHSACK Interchange and the individual NHSACK Messages.

All the sequences begin at 1 and are individual for any sender+recipient pairs of the initial Interchange. The adaptor will start them automatically.

NHSACK messages are sent back to the Interchange originator using MESH configured mailbox to a designated recipient mailbox. NHS ID Code to recipient mailbox mappings are defined using the `LAB_RESULTS_MESH_RECIPIENT_MAILBOX_ID_MAPPINGS` environment variable (check [README](https://github.com/nhsconnect/integration-adaptor-lab-results/blob/main/README.md))